 
Glossary   :  1  01/28/2021  C O M P E N D I U M  
Glossary  
This Glossary provides brief definitions for certain terms as they apply to registration, 
recordation, and other services provided by the U.S. Copyright Office. Definitions that 
are taken directly from the Copyright Act, the Office’s regulations, or a Supr eme Court 
decision are enclosed in quotation marks. Definitions that are not enclosed in quotation 
marks are not legal definitions; they are intended to educate and inform legal 
practitioners and members of the public who file applications, record document s, and 
conduct other business with the Office.  
1909 Copyright Act:  An Act to Amend and Consolidate the Acts Respecting Copyright, 
Pub. L. No. 60 -349, 35 Stat. 1075 (1909). This law as amended was the copyright law of 
the United States from July 1, 1909 th rough December 31, 1977. It was repealed 
effective January 1, 1978 and replaced with the 1976 Copyright Act.  
1976 Copyright Act:  Pub. L. No. 94 -553, 90 Stat. 2541 (1976). Passed by Congress and 
effective on January 1, 1978, this law as amended is the curre nt Copyright Law of the 
United States. It is codified in Title 17 of the U.S. Code.  
Abridgement:  A shortened or condensed version of a preexisting work that retains the 
general sense and unity of the preexisting work.  
Act:  See “1976 Copyright Act .” 
Annotation:  A statement that the U.S. Copyright Office adds to the registration record to 
clarify the facts underlying the claim or to identify legal limitations on the claim. To 
“annotate” means to add an annotation to the record.  
Anonymous work:  “An ‘anonymous work’ is a work on the copies or phonorecords of 
which no natural person is identified as author.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Appeal:  See “ Request for reconsideration .” 
Applicant:  The party who submits an application to the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Applied art: “Applied art” is “Art employed in the decoration, design, or execution of 
useful objects, or those arts o r crafts that have a primarily utilitarian function, or the 
designs and decorations used in these arts.” Star Athletica, L.L.C. v. Varsity Brands, Inc. , 
137 S. Ct. 1002, 1014 (2017) (internal quotations and citations omitted).  
Architectural work:  “An ‘architectural work’ is the design of a building as embodied in 
any tangible medium of expression, including a building, architectural plans, or 
drawings. The work includes the overall form as well as the arrangement and 
composition of spaces and elem ents in the design, but does not include individual 
standard features.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . The U.S. Copyright Office registers as architectural 
works designs for structures that can be in habited by humans or are otherwise intended 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  2 01/28/2021  for human occupancy. Examples include houses, office buildings, churches, museums, 
gazebos, and garden pavilions.  
Audiovisual work:  “‘Audiovisual works’ are works that consist of a series of related 
images which are intrinsically intended to be shown by the use of machines or devices 
such as projectors, viewers, or electronic equipment, together with accompanying 
sounds, if any, regardless of the nature of the material objects, such as films or tapes, in 
which the  works are embodied.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . In other words, the term “audiovisual 
works” refers broadly to any work that includes any series of related visual images, 
whether or not moving, and with or without sounds, as long as a machine or device is 
essential to the viewing of the related series of images.  
Authorized agent:  Any person entitled to act on behalf of an author, a copyright 
claimant, or an owner of one or more of the exclusive rights.  
Author Created: The portion of the online application that identifies the copyrightable 
material created by the author named in the application. In the paper application, this 
portion of the application is referred to as the “ Nature of Authorship ” space.  
Authorship statement:  The portion of the application that describes the copyrightable 
material created by the author named in the application. In the online application, this 
portion of this statement typicall y appears in the Author Created field and/or New 
Material Included field. In the paper application it typically appears in the Nature of 
Authorship space and/or the Material Added to This Work space.  
Automated database:  See “ Database .” 
Basic registration:  A registration issued on or after January 1, 1978.  
Berne Convention:  An international treaty, the “Convention for the Protection of 
Literary and Artistic Works,” to protect literary and artistic works signed at Berne, 
Switzerl and, on September 9, 1886, and all acts, pro tocols, and revisions thereto. The 
United States acceded to the Berne Convention and became a member on March 1, 1989.  
Best edition:  “The ‘best edition’ of a work is the edition, published in the United States 
at any time before the date of deposit, that the Library of Congress determines to be 
most suitable for its purposes.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Board:  See “ Review Board .” 
CAD: An abbreviation for the U.S. Copyright Office’s “Copyright Acquisitions Division.”  
Certificate of registration:  An official record issued by the U.S. Copyright Office that 
bears the U.S. Copyright Office seal and the signature of the Register of Copyrights. The 
certificate denotes the fact that the Office has received a valid claim to copyright (i.e., an 
acceptable application, deposit, and filing fee) and that the claim has been registered by 
the Office. The certificate shows the registration number and date that the registration is 
effective. Provided the claim is registered before the work is published or within five 
years of the date on which the work is first published, the facts on a certificate of 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  3 01/28/2021  registration and the validity of the copy right are presumed true by courts of law unless 
later shown to be false.  
Certification:  1) The act of signing an application to register a work with the U.S. 
Copyright Office. The individual who signs the application certifies that the information 
provided  therein is correct to the best of his or her knowledge. 2) The preparation of a 
statement under the seal of the U.S. Copyright Office attesting to the authenticity of a 
record or report based on a search of the Office’s records; a type of copyright servic e 
available for a fee. For certifications provided in connection with the recordation of a 
transfer of copyright ownership or other documents pertaining to copyright, see “ Sworn 
certification ” and “ Official certification .”  
Choreographic works:  The term “choreography” is derived from the Greek words 
“choreia,” meaning “dance,” and “graphikos,” meaning “to write.” A dance is a static and 
kinetic succession of bodily movements in  certain rhythmic and spatial relationships 
and in relation to time and space. Choreography is the composition and arrangement of 
a related series of dance movements and patterns organized into a coherent whole. 
Choreography is not synonymous with dance. I t is a discrete subset of dance that 
encompasses certain types of compositional dances. For example, the legislative history 
for the 1976 Copyright Act states that “‘choreographic works’ do not include social 
dance steps and simple routines.” See H.R.  REP. NO. 94-1476, at 54 (1976) , reprinted in  
1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 5659, 5667; S. REP. NO. 94-473, at 52 (1975) .  
Claim:  An assertion of ownership of the copyright in a work of authorship. A request to 
register a work of authorship with the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Claimant:  For purposes of copyright registration, the claimant is either the author of the 
work that has been submitted for registration, or a person or organization that owns all 
of the rights under copyright that initially belonged to the author of that work.  
Collective work:  “A ‘collective work’ is a work, such as a periodical issue, anthology, or 
encyclopedia, in which a number of contributions, constituting separate and 
independent works in themselves, are assembled into a collective whole.” 17 U.S.C. § 
101. A collective work is a form of compilation.  
Compilation:  “A ‘compilation’ is a work formed by the collection and assembling of 
preexisting materials or of data that are selected, coordin ated, or arranged in such a way 
that the resulting work as a whole constitutes an original work of authorship. The term 
‘compilation’ includes collective works.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Compul sory license:  See “ Statutory license .” 
Computer:  A programmable electronic device that can store, retrieve, and process data 
that is input by a user through a user interface, and is capable of providing output 
through a  display screen or other external output device, such as a printer. “Computers” 
include mainframes, desktops, laptops, tablets, and smart phones.  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  4 01/28/2021  Computer program:  “A ‘computer program’ is a set of statements or instructions to be 
used directly or indirect ly in a computer in order to bring about a certain result.” 17 
U.S.C. § 101 . 
Copies:  “‘Copies’ are material objects, other than phonorecords, in which a work is 
fixed by any method now known or later developed, and from which the work can be 
perceived, reproduced, or otherwise communicated, either directly or with the aid of a 
machine or device. The term ‘copies’ includes the material object, other than a 
phonorecord, in which the work i s first fixed.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . “The reference to ‘copies 
and phonorecords,’ although in the plural, are intended . . . to include the singular.” See 
H.R.  REP. NO. 94-1476 , at 61 (1976) , reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 5659, 5675.  
Copyright Act:  See “1976 Copyright Act .” 
Copyright Card Catalog:  A physical archive located at the U.S. Copyright Office that 
may be used to search for completed registrations and recorded documents made 
before January 1, 1978.  
Copyright claimant:  See “Claimant .” 
Copyright notice:  A stateme nt placed on copies or phonorecords of a work to inform 
the public that a copyright owner is claiming ownership of the particular work. A 
copyright notice consists of three elements:  
• The copyright symbol © (or for phonorecords, the symbol ℗), the word “Co pyright”, 
or the abbreviation “Copr.”;  
•  The year of first publication of the work; and  
• The name of the copyright owner.  
A copyright notice is no longer legally required to secure copyright on works first 
published on or after March 1, 1989, although it d oes provide legal benefits.  
Copyrightable:  A term used to describe a work that is original and sufficiently creative 
to be registered with the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Created : “A work is ‘created’ when it is fixed in a copy or phonorecord for the first tim e; 
where a work is prepared over a period of time, the portion of it that has been fixed at 
any particular time constitutes the work as of that time, and where the work has been 
prepared in different versions, each version constitutes a separate work.” 17 U.S.C. § 
101. 
Database:  For purposes of copyright registration, a database is defined as a compilation 
of digital information comprised of data, information, abstracts, images, maps, mu sic, 
sound recordings, video, other digitized material, or references to a particular subject or 
subjects. In all cases, the content of a database must be arranged in a systematic manner 
and it must be accessed by means of an integrated information retriev al program or 
system with the following characteristics: (i) a query function must be used to access 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  5 01/28/2021  the content; and (ii) the information retrieval program or system must yield a subset of 
the content or it must organize the content based on the parameter s specified in each 
query.  
Date of recordation:  1) For the recordation of transfers of copyright ownership and 
other documents pertaining to copyright under Section 205  of Title 17 of the United 
States Code, “[t]he date of recordation is the date when a proper document under [ 37 
C.F.R. § 201.4(c) ] and a proper fee under paragraph (d) of this section [ 37 C.F.R. § 201.4 ] 
are all received in the Copyright Office.” 37 C.F.R. § 201.4(e) . 2) For the recordation of a 
notice of termination under Sections 203 , 304(c) , or 304(d)  of Title 17 of the United 
States Code, “[t]he date of recordation is the date when all of the elements required for 
recordation, including the prescribed fee and, if required, the statement referred to in 
[37 C.F.R. § 201.10(f)(1)(ii) ], have been received in the Copyright Office.” 37 C.F.R. § 
201.10(f)(3) . 3) For the record ation of a Visual Arts Registry Statement “[t]he date of 
recordation is the date when all of the elements required for recordation, including the 
prescribed fee, have been received in the Copyright Office.” 37 C.F.R. § 201.26(e) . 
De minimis : A legal term that is based on the Latin phrase “ de minimis non curat lex ,” 
which means “the law does not take notice of very small or trifling matters.” Creative 
authorship is deemed “ de minimis ” when  a work does not contain the minimal degree of 
original, creative expression required to satisfy the test for originality in copyright.  
Deposit: See “ Deposit copy .” 
Deposit account:  A standing account with the U.S. Copyright  Office from which 
customers can draw funds to pay for services provided by the Office.  
Deposit copy:  A physical or electronic embodiment of a work. A deposit copy may be 
on or in various media ( e.g., paper, videotape, online digital code, etc.) and may consist 
of multiple components. A deposit copy is submitted with an application for registration 
and must conform to the U.S. Copyright Office’s regulations and other requirements. For 
copyright registr ation purposes, the deposit copy should be clear and should contain all 
of the authorship that the applicant intends to register.  
Deposit copies:  The plural form of “ deposit copy .” 
Deposit copy(ies):  A term meaning “deposit  copy” and/or “deposit copies.”  
Derivative:  See “ Derivative work .” 
Derivative work:  “A ‘derivative work’ is a work based upon one or more preexisting 
works, such as a translation, musical arrangement, dramatization, ficti onalization, 
motion picture version, sound recording, art reproduction, abridgment, condensation, 
or any other form in which a work may be recast, transformed, or adapted. A work 
consisting of editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifi cations, 
which, as a whole, represent an original work of authorship, is a ‘derivative work.’”  
17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  6 01/28/2021  Design of a useful article:  “The combination of details or features that go to make up 
the useful article.” 17 U.S.C. § 101  (definition of “Pictorial, graphic, and sculptural 
works”); Star Athletica, L.L.C. v. Va rsity Brands, Inc. , 137 S. Ct. 1002, 1009 (2017) 
(internal quotations and citations omitted).  
Display:  “To ‘display’ a work means to show a copy of it, either directly or by means of a 
film, slide, television image, or any other device or process or, in th e case of a motion 
picture or other audiovisual work, to show individual images nonsequentially.” 17 U.S.C. 
§ 101 . 
Document cover sheet: See “ Form DCS .” 
Docu ment pertaining to copyright:  “A document shall be considered to  ‘pertain to a 
copyright’ if it has a direct or indirect relationship to the existence, scope, duration, or 
identification of a copyright, or to the ownership, division, allocation, licensing,  transfer, 
or exercise of rights under a copyright. That relationship may be past, present, future, or 
potential. ” 37 C.F.R. § 201.4(a)(2) . 
EDR:  An abbreviation for “ effective date of registration .” 
Effective Date of Registration (“EDR”):  “The effective date of a copyright registration 
is the day on which an application, deposit, and fee, which are later determined by the 
Register of Copyrights or by a court of competent jurisdiction to be acceptable for 
registration, have all been received in the Copyright Office.” 17 U.S.C. § 410(d) . The 
effective date of registration is the date assigned by the U.S. Copyright Office that 
corresponds with the date the Office received all the elements required for a 
registration in acceptable form, namely, (i) a completed application, (ii) the full 
nonrefundable filing fe e, and (iii) a complete nonreturnable deposit.  
EIDR:  An abbreviation for “Entertainment Identifier Registry.”  
Eligible country : “The term ‘eligible country’ means a nation, other than the United 
States, that —  
 (A) becomes a WTO member country after the da te of the enactment of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act;  
 (B) on such date of enactment is, or after such date of enactment becomes, a nation 
adhering to the Berne Convention;  
 (C) adheres to the WIPO Copyright Treaty;  
 (D) adheres to the WIPO Performance s and Phonograms Treaty; or  
 (E) after such date of enactment becomes subject to a proclamation under [ 17 U.S.C. § 
104A ] subsection (g).”  
17 U.S.C. § 104A(h)(3) . 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  7 01/28/2021  Entertainment Identifier Registry (“EIDR”):  A unique identifier assigned to motion 
pictures and other audiovisual works. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these 
identifiers. EIDRs are administered by the Entertainment Identifier Registry 
(www.eidr.org ).  
Exclusive license:  An exclusive license is “a license that gives the licensee the sole right 
to perform the licensed act, often in a defined territory, and that prohibits the licensor 
from performing the licensed act and from granting the right to anyone e lse; 
[especially], such a license of a copyright , patent, or trademark right.” BLACK ’S LAW 
DICTIONARY  1003 (9th ed. 2009).  
Exclusive rights:  Any or all of the exclusive rights under Copyright Law, as set forth in 
Section 106  of the Copyright Act. Section 106 of the Copyright Act defines the exclusive 
rights of copyright owners in their works. Only the copyright owner has the right to do 
and to authorize the following:  
1. “To reproduce the copyrighted work in copies or phonorecords.”  
2. “To prepare derivative works based upon the copyrighted work.”  
3. “To distribute copies or phonorecords of the copyrighted work to the public by sale 
or other transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending. ” 
4. “In the case of literary, musical, dramatic, and choreographic works, pantomimes, 
and motion pictures and other audiovisual works, to perform the copyrighted work 
publicly.”  
5. “In the case of literary, musical, dramatic, and choreographic works, pantomimes , 
and pictorial, graphic, or sculptural works, including the individual images of a 
motion picture or other audiovisual work, to display the copyrighted work publicly.”  
6. “In the case of sound recordings, to perform the copyrighted work publicly by 
means of a digital audio transmission.”  
17 U.S.C. § 106 . 
These rights are subject to certain limitations that are defined in Sections 107  through 
122 of the Copyright Act.  
Filing fee:  A nonrefundable charge for processing a registration or document 
recordation request.  
Fixation:  See “fixed .” 
Fixed:  “A work is ‘fixed’ in a tangible medium of expression when its embodiment in a 
copy or phonorecord, by or under the authority of the author, is sufficiently permanent 
or stable to permit it to be perceived, reproduced , or otherwise communicated for a 
period of more than transitory duration. A work consisting of sounds, images, or both, 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  8 01/28/2021  that are being transmitted, is ‘fixed’ for purposes of this title if a fixation of the work is 
being made simultaneously with its trans mission.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Foreign work:  A work that is not a United States work.  
Form:  A printed document designed and issued by the U.S. Copyright Office for use in 
applying for regi stration and requesting certain other copyright services.  
Form CA : A paper application used to submit an application for a supplementary 
registration for certain types of works . Specifically, Form CA may be used to correct or 
amplify the information in the  following types of registrations: (i) a renewal 
registration, (ii) a GATT registration for a foreign work restored to copyright protection 
by the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, or (iii) a basic registration for a database that 
does not consist predominantl y of photographs.  
Form CON:  A continuation sheet used only in conjunction with Form CA, Form PA, 
Form SE, Form SR, Form TX, or Form VA.  
Form DCS: An optional but recommended form used to facilitate the recordation of a 
transfer of copyright ownership or other do cument pertaining to copyright.  This form 
should only be used when recording certain documents; it should not be used in 
connection with registration.  
Form GATT:  A paper application used to register a restored copyright under the 1994 
Uruguay Round Agreements Act.   
Form GATT/CON:  A continuation sheet used only in conjunction with Form GATT.  
Form MW:  A paper application used to register a mask work fixed in a semiconductor 
chip product under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984.  
Form MW/CON:  A continuation sheet used only in conjunction with Form MW.  
Form PA:  A paper application used to register certain types of works of the performing 
arts, namely musical works, dramatic works, pantomimes, choreographic works, motion 
pictures, a nd other audiovisual works.  
Form SE : A paper application used to register a single issue of a published serial.  
Form SR:  A paper application used to register works that contain sound recording 
authorship. An applicant should use Form SR if the work contain s sound recording 
authorship and if the applicant intends to register that element of the work (even if the 
work also contains other types of authorship, such as music or lyrics). If the applicant 
does not intend to register sound recording authorship, the  applicant should not use this 
form (even if the work happens to contain one or more sound recordings). Likewise, the 
applicant should not use the form if the applicant intends to register the sounds 
accompanying a motion picture or other audiovisual work.  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  9 01/28/2021  Form TX:  A paper application used to register a nondramatic literary work, such as 
fiction, nonfiction, poetry, an individual article, a textbook, a reference work, a directory, 
a catalog, advertising copy, a compilation of information, a computer program , a textual 
work made available online, or a database.  
Form VA:  A paper application used to register architectural works and pictorial, 
graphic, or sculptural works, including two -dimensional or three -dimensional works of 
fine, graphic, and applied art, ph otographs, prints or art reproductions, maps, and 
technical drawings.  
GATT:  An abbreviation for “ General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade .” 
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (“GATT”):  An agreement wh ich, in part 
restores copyright protection for certain foreign works that have lost copyright in the 
United States. The loss of copyright would have occurred for one of the following 
reasons:  
1. Failure to comply with certain “formalities” of United States la w. These formalities 
include:  
i. publication without notice prior to March 1, 1989.  
ii. failure to renew an old law work within the time limit that applied to 
that work.  
iii. failure to comply with the provisions of the “manufacturing clause.”  
2. Lack of subject matter p rotection in the case of sound recordings fixed before 
February 15, 1972.  
3. Lack of national eligibility.  
Registration using Form GATT can be for a “single work” or for a “series of works 
published under a single title in multiple episodes, installments, or  issues during the 
same calendar year.” GATT/Group registration, which allowed a broader scope for 
group registration, was eliminated effective July 1, 2006.  
GATT registration:  Registrations that cover copyright claims in a work in which U.S. 
copyright was restored under the 1994 Uruguay Round Agreements Act.  
Graphic works:  See “ Pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works .” 
Group registration: An option for registering a group of works with one application, 
one filing fee, and one set of deposit copies. The U.S. Copyright Office cu rrently offers 
group registration options for the following classes of works:  
• Unpublished works (GRUW).  
• Serials (GRSE).  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  10 01/28/2021  • Newspaper issues (GRNP).  
• Newsletter issues  (GRNL).  
• Contributions to periodicals (GRCP).  
• Short online literary works (GRTX).  
• Publishe d photographs (GRPPH).  
• Unpublished photographs (GRUPH).  
• A group of updates or revisions to a database.  
• A group of test items prepared for use in a secure test (GRSTQ).  
ID material : An abbreviation for “ identifying ma terial .” 
Identifying material (“ID material”):  An alternative deposit copy  permitted or required 
under U.S. Copyright Office regulations for registration , such as photographs submitted 
in lieu of three -dimensional works of visual arts; redacted versions of  secure tests; 
portions of computer source code, etc. Identifying material is material that adequately 
represents the authorship claimed in an unpublished or published work, whether the 
regulations permit a substitute or whether it is a required substitute  for the actual work, 
as in the case of most three -dimensional visual arts works.  
Immaterial variance:  A variance that does not affect the required information that 
should be included in an application, or any of the essential issues that should be 
resolve d before the U.S. Copyright Office may complete a registration, or a variance 
where an ordinary person would be able to discern the correct information from the 
application and would recognize the variance as a mere discrepancy, such as a 
misspelling or ty pographical error.  
Infringement: Infringement occurs when someone other than the copyright owner 
exercises the exclusive right of the copyright owner unlawfully. Certain limitations to 
the owner’s rights are defined in Sections 107  through 122  of the Copyright Act.  
International Standard Audiovisual Number (“ISAN”):  A unique identifier assigned to 
an audiovisual work. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these identifiers. They are 
assigned by designated agencies in each country participating in the program. In the 
United States, ISANs are administered by ARIBSAN  US (www.aribsan.org ). 
International Standard Book Number (“ISBN”):  A unique identifier assigned to a 
monographic publication. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these identifiers. 
They are assigned by designat ed agencies in each country participating in the program. 
In the United States, ISBNs are administered by R.R. Bowker LLC ( www.bowker.com ). 
International Standard Music Number (“ISMN”):  A unique identifier assigned to a 
notated music publication. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these identifiers. 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  11 01/28/2021  They are assigned by designated agencies in each country participating in the program. 
In the United States, ISMNs are administered by the Library of Congress 
(www.loc.gov/ismn ).  
International Standard Musical Work Code (“ISWC”):  A unique identifier assigned to 
a musical work. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these identifiers. They are 
assigned by designated agencies i n each country participating in the program. In the 
United States, ISWCs are administered by the American Society of Composers, Authors 
and Publishers (www.ascap.com ). 
International Standard Recording Code (“ISRC”):  A unique identifier assigned to a 
sound recording. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these identifiers. They are 
assigned by designated agencies in each country participating in the program. In the 
United States, ISRCs are administered by the Recordin g Industry Association of America 
(www.usisrc.org ). 
International Standard Serial Number (“ISSN”):  A unique identifier assigned to a 
serial publication. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these identifiers. They  are 
assigned by national centers under the auspices of the ISSN network. In the United 
States, ISSNs are administered by the Library of Congress ( www.loc.gov/issn ). 
International Standard Text Code (“ISTC”):  A unique identifier assigned to a text -
based work. The U.S. Copyright Office does not assign these identifiers. ISTCs are 
administered by agencies appointed by the International ISTC Agency (www.istc -
intern ational.org ).  
ISAN:  An abbreviation for “ International Standard Audiovisual Number .” 
ISBN:  An abbreviation for “ International Standard Book Number .” 
ISMN:  An abbreviation for “ International Standard Music Number .” 
ISRC:  An abbreviation for “ International Standard Recording Code .” 
ISSN:  An abbreviation for “ International Standard Serial Number .” 
ISTC:  An abbreviation for “ International Standard Text Code .” 
ISWC:  An abbreviation for “ International Standard Musical Work Code .” 
Joint work:  “A ‘joint work’ is a work prepared by two or mor e authors with the 
intention that their contributions be merged into inseparable or interdependent parts of 
a unitary whole.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
License:  An agreement by which a party grants another party one or more rights (but 
fewer than all rights), usually limited to a particular territory and/or time period. A 
license may be granted as an exclusive license or a nonexclusive license.  
Licensing Divisio n: The Licensing Division in the U.S. Copyright Office administers 
certain statutory licenses set forth in the Copyright Act. The Division collects royalty 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  12 01/28/2021  payments and examines statements of account for the cable statutory license ( 17 U.S.C. § 
111), the satellite statutory license for retransmission of distant television broadcast 
stations ( 17 U.S.C. § 119 ), and the statutory license for digital audio recording 
technology ( 17 U.S.C. §§ 1001 -1010 ). The Division also accepts and records documents 
associated with the use of the mechanical statutory license ( 17 U.S.C. § 115 ). The 
Division deducts its full operating costs from the royalty fees and invests the balance in 
interest -bearing securities with the U.S. Treasury for later distributio n to copyright 
owners. For further information see The Licensing Division of the Copyright Office 
(Circular 75) . 
Limitation of claim:  The portion of the application that identifies copyrightable 
mat erial that has been excluded from the claim. It is typically used to exclude previously 
published material, previously registered material, public domain material, and/or 
material that is not owned by the claimant named in the application. In the online 
application, this portion of the application includes the Material Excluded and Previous 
Registration fields. In the paper application, this portion of the application includes the 
Previous Registration and Preexisting Material spaces.  
LIT: An abbreviation f or the “Literary Division” of the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Literary monograph: A “literary monograph” is a “literary work published in one 
volume or a finite number of volumes. This category does not include serials, nor does it 
include legal publications th at are published in one volume or a finite number of 
volumes that contain legislative enactments, judicial decisions, or other edicts of 
government.” 37 C.F.R. § 202.19(b)(5) . 
Literary works: “‘Literary works’ are works, other than audiovisual works, expressed in 
words, numbers, or other verbal or numerical symbols or indicia, regardless of the 
nature of the material objects, such as books, periodicals, manuscripts, phonorecords, 
film, t apes, disks, or cards, in which they are embodied.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . A literary work 
is a nondramatic work that explains, describes, or narrates a particular subject, theme, 
or idea thr ough the use of narrative, descriptive, or explanatory text, rather than dialog 
or dramatic action. Generally, nondramatic literary works are intended to be read; they 
are not intended to be performed before an audience. Examples of nondramatic literary 
works include the following types of works: fiction, nonfiction, poetry, directories, 
catalogs, textbooks, reference works, advertising copy, compilations of information, 
computer programs, databases, and other textual works.  
Mandatory deposit copy:  A deposi t copy sent to the U.S. Copyright Office pursuant to 
Section 407  of the Copyright Act. Section 407 provides that the owner of copyright or 
the owner of the exclusive right of publicatio n in a work published in the United States 
shall deposit two copies or phonorecords of the best edition of the work within three 
months after publication for the benefit of the national collection of the Library of 
Congress. 17 U.S.C. § 407 . The deposit of a published work that is acceptable under 
Section 408  also may satisfy the deposit requirements of Section 407.  
Manufacturing clause: Section 601 of the 1976 Copyright Act, which was repealed by 
the Copyright Cleanup, Clarification, and Corrections Act of 2010. Prior to 1986, United 
States authors who claimed copyright in magazines, newspapers, and books published 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  13 01/28/2021  and printed in the English language were required to indicate that the work was 
manufactured in the United States or Canada in order the satisfy the requirements of the 
manufacturing clause.  
Mask work:  “A ‘mask work’ is a series of related images, however fi xed or encoded  — 
(A) having or representing the predetermined, three -dimensional pattern of metallic, 
insulating, or semiconductor material present or removed from the layers of a 
semiconductor chip product; and (B) in which series the relation of the imag es to one 
another is that each image has the pattern of the surface of one form of the 
semiconductor chip product.” 17 U.S.C. § 901(a)(2) . A three -dimensional design formed 
on or in the layers of a semiconductor chip. This term does not apply to sculptural 
masks. Mask works are protected under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 
and may be registered by the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Material variance:  A variance that substantia lly affects the required information that 
should be included in the application, or any of the essential issues that should be 
resolved before the U.S. Copyright Office may complete a registration.  
Motion pictures:  “‘Motion pictures’ are audiovisual works consisting of a series of 
related images which, when shown in succession, impart an impression of motion, 
together with accompanying sounds, if any.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . The definition of “motion 
pictures” does not include the following:  
• Unauthorized fixations of live performances or telecasts.  
• Live telecasts that are not fixed simultaneously with their transmission.  
• Filmstrips and slide sets which, although consisting of a series of imag es intended to 
be shown in succession, are not capable of conveying an impression of motion.  
See H.R.  REP. NO. 94-1476 , at 56 (1976) , reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 5659, 5669.  
Nature of Authorship : The portion of a paper application that identifies the 
copyrightable material created by the author named in the application. In the online 
application, this portion of the application is referred to as the “ Author Created ” field.  
Newspaper:  “[A] periodical . . . that is mainly designed to be a primary source of written 
information on current events, either local, national, or international in scope. A 
newspaper contains a broad range of news on all subjects and activities and is not 
limited to any specific subject matter. Newspapers are intended either for the general 
public or for a particular ethnic, cultural, or national group.” 37 C.F.R . § 202.4(e)(1) . 
Newsletter: “[A] serial that is published and distributed by mail, electronic media, or 
other medium, including paper, email, or download. The newsletter must contain news 
or information that is chiefly of interest to a special group, such as trade and 
professional associations, c olleges, schools, or churches.”  37 C.F.R. §  202.4(f)(1)(i) .  
Nonexclusive license:  A nonexclusive license is “a license of intellectu al property 
rights that gives the licensee a right to use, make, or sell the licensed item on a shared 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  14 01/28/2021  basis with the licensor and possibly other licensees.” BLACK ’S LAW DICTIONARY  1004 (9th 
ed. 2009).  
Notice : See “Copyright notice .” 
Object code:  A representation of a computer program that is written in a machine 
language consisting of binary code ( i.e., ones and zeroes). Object code is comprehensible 
to a computer or other electronic device, but as a general rule, it is not comprehensible 
to huma n beings.  
Official certification : “An official certification is a certification, by the appropriate 
Government official, that the original of the document is on file in a public office and that 
the reproduction is a true copy of the original.” 37 C.F.R. § 201.4(a)(3)(ii)  (italics 
omitted).  
OGC:  An abbreviation for the U.S. Copyright Office’s “Office of the General Counsel.”  
Online public record:  The database posted on the U.S. Copyright Office’s website  
containing records relating to registrations and document recordations issued after 
1978. Also known as the Public Catalog.  
PA: An abbreviation for the “Pe rforming Arts Division” of the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Pantomime:  The art of imitating, presenting, or acting out situations, characters, or 
events through the use of physical gestures and bodily movements.  
Perform:  “To ‘perform’ a work means to recite, re nder, play, dance, or act it, either 
directly or by means of any device or process or, in the case of a motion picture or other 
audiovisual work, to show its images in any sequence or to make the sounds 
accompanying it audible.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 .  
Performing arts works : See “ Works of the Performing Arts .”  
Periodical : “A collective work that is issued or intended to be issued on an established 
schedule in successive issues that are intended to be continued indefinitely. In most 
cases, each issue will bear the same title, as well as numerical or chronological 
designations.”  37 C.F.R. § 202.4(b)(3) . 
Phonorecords : “‘Phonorecords’ are material objects in which sounds, other than those 
accompanying a motion picture or other audiovisual work, are fixed by any m ethod now 
known or later developed, and from which the sounds can be perceived, reproduced, or 
otherwise communicated, either directly or with the aid of a machine or device. The 
term ‘phonorecords’ includes the material object in which the sounds are firs t fixed.” 17 
U.S.C. § 101 . “The reference to ‘copies and phonorecords,’ although in the plural, are 
intended . . . to include the singular.” See H.R.  REP. NO. 94-1476 , at 61 (1976) , reprinted in 
1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 5659, 5675.  
PIA: An abbreviation for the U.S. Copyright Office’s “Office of Policy and International 
Affairs.”  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  15 01/28/2021  Pictorial works:  See “ Pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works .” 
Pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works:  “‘Pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works’ 
include two -dimensional and three -dimensional works of fine, graphic, and applied art, 
photographs, prints and art reproductions, maps, globes, charts, diagrams, models, and 
technical drawings, including architectural plans. Such works shall include works of 
artistic craftsmanship insofar as their form but not their mechanical o r utilitarian 
aspects are concerned; the design of a useful article, as defined in this section, shall be 
considered a pictorial, graphic, or sculptural work only if, and only to the extent that, 
such design incorporates pictorial, graphic, or sculptural f eatures that can be identified 
separately from, and are capable of existing independently of, the utilitarian aspects of 
the article.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 .  
PIE: An abbreviation for the U.S . Copyright Office’s “Office of Public Information and 
Education.”  
PIO: An abbreviation for the U.S. Copyright Office’s “Public Information Office.”  
Preregistration:  A procedure that allows certain copyright owners to file an action for 
infringement and to  seek statutory damages and attorney’s fees in cases where the work 
was infringed before the copyright owner completed the work and released it to the 
public. Preregistration is entirely optional. It is neither a prerequisite nor a precondition 
for copyrig ht owners who wish to register their works with the U.S. Copyright Office. In 
other words, an original work of authorship may be registered regardless of whether 
the work has been preregistered or not. Copyright owners may benefit from this 
procedure if th ey have started to create a work of authorship that has not been 
completed yet, and if it is likely that a third party may infringe that work before it has 
been released to the public. But in order to preserve the benefits of this procedure, the 
copyright owner must seek an actual registration for the work shortly after it has been 
published or infringed. For the vast majority of copyright owners, preregistration is not 
useful. To be eligible for preregistration, a work of authorship must fall within one or  
more of the following classes of works: (i) motion pictures; (ii) sound recordings; (iii) 
musical compositions; (iv) literary works being prepared for publication in book form; 
(v) computer programs (including videogames); or (vi) advertising or marketing  
photographs. Works that do not fall within these classes are not eligible for this 
procedure.  
Pseudonymous work:  “A ‘pseudonymous work’ is a work on the copies or 
phonorecords of which the author is identified under a fictitious name.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Publication:  “‘Publication’ is the distribution of copies or phonorecords of a work to 
the public by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending. The 
offering to distribute copies or phonorecords to a group of persons for purposes of 
further distribution, public performance, or public display, constitutes publication.  
A public performance or display of a work does not of itself constitute publication.”  
17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Public Catalog:  See “ Online public record .” 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  16 01/28/2021  Public display:  See “ Public performance and public display .”  
Public domain:  A work of authorship that is not protected by copyright is in the public 
domain. In the United States, a copyrighted work enters the public domain w hen its full 
copyright term has expired. In addition, works published in the United States without a 
copyright notice on or before March 1, 1989 may be in the public domain, and works 
registered or published in the United States on or before December 31, 1 963 may be in 
the public domain if the copyright was not renewed in a timely manner. The status of a 
creative work which, through expiration of term or failure to comply with statutory 
formalities, is not protected by copyright.  
Publicly:  See “ Public performance and public display .”  
Public performance: See “ Public performance and public display .” 
Public performance and public display:  “To perform or display a work ‘publicly’ 
means  
1.  to perform or display it at a place open to the public or at any place where a 
substantial number of persons outside of a normal circle of a family and its social 
acquaintances is gathered; or  
2. to transmit or otherwise commu nicate a performance or display of the work to a 
place specified by clause (1) or to the public, by means of any device or process, 
whether the members of the public capable of receiving the performance or display 
receive it in the same place or in separat e places and at the same time or at different 
times.”  
17 U.S.C. § 101 .  
Public record:  Official records maintained by the U.S. Copyright Office relating to 
registrations and document recordations, which are made available to the public 
through the Office’s website, the Copyright Card Catalog, the Catalog of Copyright 
Entries , or the Records  Research and Certification Section.  
RAC: An abbreviation for the U.S. Copyright Office’s “Receipt Analysis and Control 
Division.”  
Recordation:  Recordation is the official filing in the public records of the U.S. Copyright 
Office of a document having to do  with copyright. The purpose of recordation is to make 
a public record of the facts in the document.  
Recordation specialists:  Members of the U.S. Copyright Office’s Recordation Section 
who are responsible for recording documents.  
Register of Copyrights:  The Register of Copyrights is the Director of the U.S. Copyright 
Office. By statute, the Register works under the general direction of the Librarian of 
Congress and carries out a variety of legal and policy functions that are enumerated 
throughout Title 17.  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  17 01/28/2021  Registration:  “‘Registration,’ for purposes of Sections 205(c)(2) , 405, 406, 410(d) , 411, 
412, and 506(e)  [of the 1976 Act] means a registration of a claim in the original or the 
renewed and extended term o f copyright.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . The principle function 
performed by the U.S. Copyright Office under the provisions of Section 408  of the 
Copyright Law. The process for putting a claim on record in the U.S. Copyright Office; a 
type of copyright service available for a fee. Registration is a possible result of the U.S. 
Copyright Office’s examination of an application to register a claim of copyright in an 
original work of authorship. Registration involves examining the claim, and if the claim 
is approved by the U.S. Copyright Office, numbering the claim, issuing a certificate of 
registration, and creating a public record.   
Registration materials:  A public record maintained by the U.S. Copyright Office. It 
includes all the materials that an applicant submits to the Office in connection with an 
application to register a claim to copyright, including the application, deposit copy(ies), 
and the filing fee, as well as any communications between the applicant and the Office 
relating to that claim.  
Registration specialists:  Members of the U.S. Copyright Office’s Registration Program 
who are responsible for examining claims to copy right.  
Remitter: The party who submits a document to the U.S. Copyright Office for 
recordation.  
Renewal:  See “Renewal claim .” 
Renewal claim:  An assertion of ownership for the second term of copyright in a work of 
authorship  originally published or registered under the 1909 Act; when filed with the 
U.S. Copyright Office, a renewal claim presents a request for registration. For works 
copyrighted between January 1, 1964 and December 31, 1977, renewal is automatic but 
registrati on confers certain benefits.  
Renewal registration: See “Renewal claim .” 
Request for reconsideration : A request for reconsideration to the Registration 
Program Office or a request for reconsideration to the Review Board is an 
administrative review of a refusal to register a claim in copyright by an applicant.  
Review Board (also referred to as the “Board”) : A Board consisting of the Register of 
Copyrights and the General Counsel of the Copyright Office (or their respective 
designees) and a third individual designated by the Register that hears second requests 
for reconsideration of the Registration Program’ s decision to refuse to register a claim 
to copyright.  
RRCS: An abbreviation for the U.S. Copyright Office’s “Records Research and 
Certification Section.”  
Rule of Doubt : In certain circumstances, the U.S. Copyright Office may register a claim 
under the Rul e of Doubt if the registration specialist is unable to examine the deposit 
copy(ies) to determine if the work contains copyrightable authorship. In exceptional 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  18 01/28/2021  cases, the Office may apply the Rule of Doubt if it has not taken a position on a legal 
issue th at is directly relevant to whether the work constitutes copyrightable subject 
matter or whether the other legal and formal requirements of the statute have been met. 
The Office will not register a claim under the Rule of Doubt simply because there is some 
uncertainty as to how a particular issue may be decided by a particular court.  
Scènes à faire : A stock character, setting, or event that is common to a particular 
subject matter or medium. Standard expressions that necessarily follow from the idea 
for a wo rk of authorship.  
Screen displays:  Content generated by a computer program that appears on a 
computer screen.  
Sculptural works:  See “ Pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works .” 
Secure test:  “A nonmarketed test administered under supervision at specified centers 
on scheduled dates, all copies of which are accounted for and either destroyed or 
returned to restricted locked storage following each administration.” 37 C.F.R. § 
202.13(b)(1) . “A test is nonmarketed  if copies of the test are not sold, but instead are 
distributed and used in such a manner that the test sponsor or publisher retains 
ownership and control of the copies .” Id. § 202.13(b)(2).  “A test is administered under 
supervision  if test proctors or the equivalent supervise the administration of the test.” Id. 
§ 202.13(b)(3) . “A specified center  is a place where test takers are physically assembled 
at the same time.” Id. §202.13 (b)(4) .  
Secure test item: “An i tem prepared for use in a secure test. A “test item is comprised 
of a question (or ‘stem’), the correct answer to that question, any incorrect answer 
choices (or ‘distractors’), and any associated material, such as a narrative passage or 
diagram.” 37 C.F.R. § 202.13(b)(5) .  
Semiconductor chip product:  “A ‘semiconductor chip product’ is the final or 
intermediate form of any product — 
 (A)  having two or more layers of metallic, insulating, or semiconductor material, 
deposited or otherwise placed on, or etched away or otherwise removed from, a 
piece of se miconductor material in accordance with a predetermined pattern; and  
 (B) intended to perform electronic circuitry functions.”  
17 U.S.C. § 901(a)(1) . 
Separability:  “[T]he analysis undertaken to determine whether a feature can be 
separately identified from, and exist independently of, a useful article.” Star Athletica, 
L.L.C. v. Varsity Brands, Inc. , 137 S. Ct. 1002, 1009 (2017) . 
Serial:  A work that is issued or intended to be issued on an established schedule in 
successive parts bearing numerical or chronological designations that are intended to 
be continued indefinitely. Examples include periodicals (including newspapers), 
annuals, the journals and proceedings of societies, and other similar works.  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  19 01/28/2021  Series of musical, spoken, or other sounds: A series of musical, spoken, or other 
sounds connotes a temporal succession of sounds rather than simultaneous sounds, 
such as those expressed in a chord vertically.  
Shipping slip:  A document generated by the U.S. Copyright Office’s electronic 
registration system. If the applicant submits a physical copy of a work to the Office, the 
copy must be accompanied by a shipping slip. Failure t o include a shipping slip may 
prevent the Office from connecting the deposit copies with the online application and 
may require the applicant to resubmit the deposit, thereby affecting the effective date of 
registration.  
Short online literary work:  “[A] short online literary work is a work consisting of text 
that contains at least 50 words and no more than 17,500 words, such as a poem, short 
story, article, essay, column, blog entry, or social media post. The work must be 
published as part of a website or o nline platform, including online newspapers, social 
media websites, and social networking platforms.” 37 C.F.R. § 202.4(j)(1).  
Sound recordings:  “‘Sound recordings’ are works that result  from the fixation of a 
series of musical, spoken, or other sounds, but not including the sounds accompanying a 
motion picture or other audiovisual work, regardless of the nature of the material 
objects, such as disks, tapes, or other phonorecords, in whic h they are embodied.” 17 
U.S.C. § 101 . 
Source code:  Source code is a set of statements and instructions written by a human 
being using a particular programming language, such as Java, L ISP, LOGO, PASCAL, 
Programming Inquiry Learning or Teaching, Programming in Logic, Assembly Language, 
or other programming languages. Typically, these statements are comprehensible to a 
person who is familiar with the relevant programming language, but the y are not 
comprehensible to a computer or other electronic device. In order to convey these 
statements and instructions to a machine, the source code must be converted into object 
code.  
Source country:  “The ‘source country’ of a restored work is — 
 (A)  a nation other than the United States;  
 (B) in the case of an unpublished work —  
 (i) the eligible country in which the author or rightholder is a national or 
domiciliary, or, if a restored work has more than 1 author or rightholder, of 
which the majority of foreign authors or rightholders are nationals or 
domiciliaries; or  
 (ii) if the majority of authors or rightholders are not foreign, the nation other than 
the United States which has the most significant contacts with the work; and  
 (C) in the case of a pu blished work —  
 (i) the eligible country in which the work is first published, or  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  20 01/28/2021   (ii) if the restored work is published on the same day in 2 or more eligible 
countries, the eligible country which has the most significant contacts with the 
work.”  
17 U.S.C. § 104A(h)(8) . 
Special handling:  Special handling is a procedure for expediting the examination of a 
claim to copyright or to record a document. The U.S. Copyright Office offers this  service 
in certain circumstances where a copyright owner or other interested parties have a 
compelling reason for the expedited issuance of a certificate of registration or certificate 
of recordation, such as pending or prospective litigation, customs mat ters, and 
publication or contract deadlines.  
Statutory license: A right to use certain works  if certain statutory requirements are 
met as required by the Copyright Law.  
Sui generis : A Latin phrase meaning “of its own kind.” In the context of the copyright 
law, it refers to classes of works protected under the statute that do not fall within 
existing categories of legal protection, such as mask works and vessel designs.  
Supplementary registration:  A special type of registration that may be used “to correct 
an error in a copyright registration or to amplify the information given in a registration.” 
See 17 U.S.C. § 40 8(d) .  
Sworn certification:  “A sworn certification is an affidavit under the official seal of any 
officer authorized to administer oaths within the United States, or if the original is 
located outside of the United States, under the official seal of any di plomatic or consular 
officer of the United States or of a person authorized to administer oaths whose 
authority is proved by the certificate of such an officer, or a statement in accordance 
with section 1746 of title 28 of the United States Code.” 37 C.F.R. § 201.4(a)(3)(i)  (italics 
omitted). A sworn statement verifying that a photocopy or other reproduction of a 
signed document is a true copy of the original.  
Transfer:  See “ Transfer of copyright ownership .” 
Transfer of copyright ownership:  “A ‘transfer of copyright ownership’ is an 
assignment, mortgage, exclusive license, or any other conveyance, alienation, or 
hypothecation of a copyright or of any of the exclusive rights comprised in a copyright, 
whether or not it is limited in time or place of effect, but not including a nonexclusive 
license.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Transfer  statement:  A brief statement in an application for registration that explains 
how the claimant obtained ownership of the copyright.  
Translation:  A rendering of a work of authorship from one language into another, such 
as a work that has been translated fr om English into Spanish, from German into English, 
or from Hindi into Malayalam.  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  21 01/28/2021  Treaty party:  “A ‘treaty party’ is a country or intergovernmental organization other than 
the United States that is a party to an international agreement.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 .  
Unclaimable material:  For purposes of copyright registration, “unclaimable material” 
includes (i) previously published material; (ii) previously registered material; (iii) 
material that is in the public domain; and/or (iv) copyrightable material that is not 
owned by the claimant named in the application. If a work contains an appreciable 
amount of unclaimable material, the applicant should exclude that material from the 
claim.  
United Stat es work : “For purposes of section 411 [of the 1976 Act], a work is a ‘United 
States work’ only if —  
1.  in the case of a published work, the work is first published —  
(A) in the United States;  
(B) simultaneously in the United States and another treaty party or parties, whose 
law grants a term of copyright protection that is the same as or longer than the 
term provided in the United States;  
(C) simultaneously in the United States and a foreign nation that is not a treaty 
party; or  
(D) in a foreign nation  that is not a treaty party, and all of the authors of the work 
are nationals, domiciliaries, or habitual residents of, or in the case of an 
audiovisual work legal entities with headquarters in, the United States;  
2.  in the case of an unpublished work, all t he authors of the work are nationals, 
domiciliaries, or habitual residents of the United States, or, in the case of an 
unpublished audiovisual work, all the authors are legal entities with headquarters in 
the United States; or  
3. in the case of a pictorial, g raphic, or sculptural work incorporated in a building or 
structure, the building or structure is located in the United States.”  
17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
Unit of publication:  A registration acco mmodation by the U.S. Copyright Office for 
registering multiple works with one application, one filing fee, and one set of deposit 
copies where the works are physically bundled together by the claimant for distribution 
to the public as a single, integrated  unit and all the works are first published in that 
integrated unit.  
Unpublished : See “ Unpublished work .” 
Unpublished collection:  A registration accommodation formerly offered by the U.S. 
Copyright Office for registering  a number of unpublished works with one application, 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  22 01/28/2021  one filing fee, and one set of deposit copies. This option was replaced by the group 
registration option for unpublished works effective March 15, 2019.  
Unpublished work : A work for which publication, as  defined in the Copyright Law, has 
not occurred.  
URAA: An abbreviation for “ Uruguay Round Agreements Act .” 
Uruguay Round Agreements Act (“URAA”):  Legislation that includes an agreement on 
the Trade -Related Aspe cts of Intellectual Property under the General A greement on 
Tariffs and Trade. Signed into law December 8, 1994.  
Uruguay Round General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (“GATT”):  See “ General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (“GATT”) .” 
Useful article:  “A ‘useful article’ is an article having an intrinsic utilitarian function that 
is not merely to portray the appearance of the article or to convey information.  
An article that is normally a part of a useful article is considered a ‘useful article.’”  
17 U.S.C. § 101 . 
VA: An abbreviation for the “Visual Arts Division” of  the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Variance:  A “variance” refers to any instance where conflicting information is present in 
or among the registration materials submitted by the applicant. See also “Material 
variance” and “Immaterial variance.”  
Vessel design:  A design of a frame or body of a craft that is capable of being 
independently propelled and steered through water, and is designed to carry or 
transport one or more passengers. Vessel designs received design protection (not 
copyright protection) in 1998 pursu ant to the Vessel Hull Design Protection Act of 1998  
and may be registered with the U.S. Copyright Office.  
Visual arts works:  The U.S. Copyright Office uses the term “visual arts works” to 
collectively refer to “ pictorial, graphic, and sculptural works ” and “ architectural works .” 
Work of visual art:  “A ‘work of visual art’ is —  
1. a painting, drawing, print or sculpture, existing in a single copy, in a limited edition 
of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered by the author, 
or, in the case of a sculpture, in multiple cast, carved, or fabricated sculptures of 200 
or fewer that are consecutively numbered by the author and bear the signature or 
othe r identifying mark of the author; or  
2. a still photographic image produced for exhibition purposes only, existing in a single 
copy that is signed by the author, or in a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that 
are signed and consecutively numbered by the author.  
A work of visual art does not include —  
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  23 01/28/2021  (A) (i) any poster, map, globe, chart, technical drawing, diagram, model, applied art, 
motion picture or other audiovisual work, book, magazine, newspaper, periodical, 
data base, electronic information servic e, electronic publication, or similar 
publication;  
(ii)  any merchandising item or advertising, promotional, descriptive, covering, or 
packaging material or container;  
(iii) any portion or part of any item described in clause (i) or (ii);  
(B)  any work made for hire; or  
(C)  any work not subject to copyright protection under this title.”  
17 U.S.C. § 101 . “Works of visual art” is a specific class of works that are eligible for 
protection under the Visual Artists Rights Act.  
Widow or widower : “The author’s ‘widow’ or ‘widower’ is the author’s surviving spouse 
under the law of the author’s domicile at the time of his or her death, whether or not the 
spouse has later remarried.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 .  
WIPO:  An abbreviation for “ World Intellectual Property Organization .” 
Work of the United States Government:  “A ‘work of the United States Government’ is 
a work prepared by an officer or employee of the United States Government as part of 
that person’s official duties.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 .  
Work mad e for hire:  “A ‘work made for hire’ is —  
1. a work prepared by an employee within the scope of his or her employment;  
or 
2. a work specially ordered or commissioned for use as a contribution to a collective 
work, as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisu al work, as a translation, as a 
supplementary work, as a compilation, as an instructional text, as a test, as answer 
material for a test, or as an atlas, if the parties expressly agree in a written 
instrument signed by them that the work shall be considere d a work made for hire. 
For the purpose of the foregoing sentence, a ‘supplementary work’ is a work 
prepared for publication as a secondary adjunct to a work by another author for the 
purpose of introducing, concluding, illustrating, explaining, revising, commenting 
upon, or assisting in the use of the other work, such as forewords, afterwords, 
pictorial illustrations, maps, charts, tables, editorial notes, musical arrangements, 
answer material for tests, bibliographies, appendixes, and indexes, and an 
‘instructional text’ is a literary, pictorial, or graphic work prepared for publication 
and with the purpose of use in systematic instructional activities.”  
In determining whether any work is eligible to be considered a work made for hire 
under paragraph (2), neither the amendment contained in section 1011(d) of the 
CO M P E N D I U M  O F  U .S. C O P Y R I G H T  O F F I C E  P R A C T I C E S , Third Edition  
Glossary   :  24 01/28/2021  Intellectual Property and Communications Omnibus Reform Act of 1999, as enacted by 
section 1000(a)(9) of Public Law 106 -113, nor the deletion of the words added by that 
amendment — (A) shall be consi dered or otherwise given any legal significance, or (B) 
shall be interpreted to indicate congressional approval or disapproval of, or 
acquiescence in, any judicial determination, by the courts or the Copyright Office. 
Paragraph (2) shall be interpreted as if both section 2(a)(1) of the Work Made for Hire 
and Copyright Corrections Act of 2000 and section 1011(d) of the Intellectual Property 
and Communications Omnibus Reform Act of 1999, as enacted by section 1000(a)(9) of 
Public Law 106 -113, were never enact ed, and without regard to any inaction or 
awareness by the Congress at any time of any judicial determinations.”  
17 U.S.C. § 101 .  
Works of the Performing Arts:  For purposes of copyrigh t registration, the U.S. 
Copyright Office uses the term “works of the performing arts” to refer collectively to the 
following works of authorship: musical works, including any accompanying words; 
sound recordings; dramatic works, including any accompanying  music; choreographic 
works; pantomimes; audiovisual works; and motion pictures. “This class includes all 
published and unpublished works prepared for the purpose of being performed directly 
before an audience or indirectly by means of a device or process. ” 37 C.F.R. § 
202.3(b)(1)(ii) . 
Works of the Visual Arts: See “ Visual arts works .” 
World Intellectual Property Organization (“WIPO”):  A specialized agen cy of the 
United Nations that administers intellectual property matters of concern to the member 
states of the United Nations in order to ensure that the rights of creators and owners of 
intellectual property are protected worldwide and that inventors and authors are, thus, 
recognized and rewarded for their ingenuity.  
WTO:  An abbreviation for “World Trade Organization.”  
 
 
 
